### Epilogue:

You will notice that I often use common vernacular and "WE" a lot. Why? First, [H]istory is narrative construction and storytelling that must be engaging and relatable. However, public engagement doesn't mean dumbing down scholarly research (Holtorf 2007). Therefore, I don't want to inundate you with technical jargon and scare you away (that would be counter-productive). Rather, I want to challenge you to think about how *we*, as historians, archaeologists, public historians, and numismatists, can reframe, narrate and make Byzantine history enchanting to the public. We will discuss complex topics without the expectation that you will know all the technical jargon. Secondly, the "We" is exactly what it means. We (you and I) will explore, discuss, and collaborate throughout the course. Western academia/universities are embedded with colonialist structures that have created hierarchal systems that produce power structures. The professor-student relationship is one of those structures which, in some cases, can oppress or discourage the student's ability to be creative and produce new and insightful historical narratives. I want to promote and enable a constructive learning environment that focuses on rigorous creative historical narrative construction. ([My Gothic Dissertation](https://www.mygothicdissertation.com/), by Dr. Anna Williams, provides excellent examples of exploited power imbalances in academia between professor and student over and above the thesis' exploration of the Gothic literary genre.) Moreover, in this class, **I am learning from you just as much as you are learning from me.** 

I'm not going to lecture you for an hour and a half every class of every week, then tell you to write a paper. Rather, inspired by the book *Failing Gloriously* (Graham 2019), my goal is to create an environment that promotes open dialogue and allows failure to produce constructive outputs and be informative to your success as a student. Things break, and subsequently, things fail because of these breaks. Failing, or as Graham states, _Fail Gloriously_, is not a bad thing. Indeed, it is positive and necessary (Graham 2020: 3). I have failed - **a lot** - and continue to do so, but each failure is a teachable moment for success. I want you to be inquisitive, curious, and daring to try new things and methods without fear of penalty. The opportunity to fail gloriously in a constructive environment produces a learning experience for you and me. Consequently, it provides you with new methodological tools for creating historical narratives while being as academically rigorous as possible. Attempting to create digital enchantment of Byzantine coins is a collaborative effort which we all learn from. Remember, we are not trying to recreate the Big Bang theory or black holes; we are studying Byzantine coins in the public and academic sphere. Equally as dramatic but without the planet Vulcan destroying properties. We will collaborate, create, fail, and succeed together. Each week we will work and support each other as a team to achieve our objectives. Archaeological sites, museums and exhibitions are not one-person shows. They are collaboratively discussed, planned, surveyed, excavated, created and curated in order to reach an end product. Shouldn't we learn in the same manner? 