### Discussion Posts: 

In archaeological fieldwork, teams of individuals excavate designated trenches that may contain material culture and stratigraphy from varying periods. Therefore, archaeological trenches can become extremely complex very quickly, with large amounts of data being recorded daily from different individuals. When this data is combined with data from other trenches, analysis and interpretation are intricate and complicated. Therefore, methodical, clear and concise note-taking is critical to keep data organized and coherent so it can be synthesized, analyzed, and interpreted individually and jointly with data from individual or multiple trenches. Thus, field notebooks are critical tools for archaeologists to interpret and create knowledge about the past.  

Our discussion posts mimic how archaeologists record evidence/data and synthesize it into a homogenous corpus that reflects all the work undertaken during a field season. A shared Obsidian.md vault for the class will be created and in the vault will be designated files for your group project. All students can see and access these files, so be considerate and **do not tamper with files and notes that do not belong to you.** I will monitor student note creation while creating additional instructor notes to stimulate dialogue and support your learning. Each week, students are required to submit one discussion post and a minimum of two reply posts in Obsidian.md based on the themes for that week (See week one Obsidian lesson overview). Templates will be provided for your posts in the Templates folder in the community vault, as the consistent recording of our ideas is important for the final outcome of this project. Each week you will be given a prompt on which to base your discussion post. Each post will contain a maximum of 400 words (unless otherwise specified) and include relevant citations. Citing is extremely important for this project, and you must provide a minimum of two citations per discussion post and reply post.  The citations have two purposes. First, demonstrate and give credit to the sources that aided in generating your thoughts and ideas. Secondly, it is a surprise to be revealed in our final week.

You will then link your posts to two of your peers' posts with a reply on why you created this link. Replies will be no more than 150 words. **There is no maximum amount of replies,** and be sure your replies contribute in a rigorous scholarly manner. One reply is to be linked to a member of your group and one to a student outside your group. These posts are meant to stimulate dialogue and collaboration with your colleagues in and outside your groups (just like if you were working in different trenches at the same archaeological site). **They are not meant to be heavily critical or disparaging.** At the beginning of week two, you will be divided into groups and begin collaborating and developing strategies to analyze, interpret and formulate hypotheses from your group's ever-evolving Obsidian.md repository. This exercise aims to force you to think critically about what you and your peers record as data/evidence and how your classmates link ideas together.  This is an exercise about significance claims. What is identified and considered as data, and what is not? The goal is not to find a correct or definitive answer but to understand the processes involved in collecting and interpreting archaeological data. Furthermore, discussions are meant to support and inform your final project. 

For templates, click on the following [[DiscussionTemplate]], [[ReplyTemplate]], and [[Process Note 1]]