## Course Overview:
### An Instructor's Brief Anecdote:

This course is inspired by my experiences and research in Athens, Greece, during the summer of 2022. I was researching Byzantine (Eastern Roman Empire) coins at the Athenian Agora as well as how coins were curated and exhibited in Greek Museums. I focused on how the museums used coins to present and represent Byzantine identity to the public. It was no surprise to see the coins displayed in glass cases with brief explanations next to them. However, what was surprising was the stark contrast between who visited the Numismatic Museum of Athens, the Byzantine and Christian Museum (Athens), the Museum of Byzantine Culture (Thessaloniki), and the fairly new, architecturally stunning, bright, spacious, and interactive, Acropolis Museum in Athens.  Can you guess which museum had more people present?  The Acropolis Museum. I asked myself, what was it about the Acropolis museum, besides its modernist architecture, that brought people into it by the thousands? Was it Greek antiquity? No, there were Roman exhibits too. Why was this museum so attractive compared to the other museums? Maybe it was the public access to the excavated site underneath the museum. Were the narratives told through the exhibits more engaging, interactive, and enchanting then Byzantine history and material culture? No, it can't be. Byzantine history and archaeology are super cool...but is it enchanting? Do you even know who the Byzantines are?


### Course Description: 

This is a course about the power of narrative, knowledge creation, and the digital methods used to facilitate such endeavours to create enchantment around the archaeology of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire within the public sphere. Specifically, we will explore how narrative and knowledge is constructed around Byzantine coins from excavation to exhibition, and how museums use these coins to represent Byzantine history and identity for public consumption. The central question I want to explore in this course is: How can we make Byzantine coins more accessible and enchanting for the public?  I want us to explore this question by integrating digital methods into our analysis. However, you may be asking, why bother going through all this effort to make Byzantine coins more engaging, accessible and enchanting? A coin is a coin, right?

Nope!

Besides my personal bias, coins have been, and continue to be, to some degree, isolated from historical and archaeological narratives in museums. Each ancient and medieval coin is unique. They were hand-struck which makes no two coins alike. Furthermore, Byzantine coins are tangible objects that link our modern world to the ancient and medieval world as many of our modern coin designs are inspired by Greek and Roman coins (Balaskas 2019). Unfortunately, Byzantine coins have generally been presented to the public in a disenchanted manner; distant, dis-engaged, sensorially abstract, void of their primary form of engagement: Touch and Feel. The sensorial is very much removed and this distorts the affective nature Byzantine coins have on the public. We generally display coins behind glass-encased exhibits (with written descriptions either next to the coin or on panel outside of the display) forbidding the experience of touch and, in many situations, in order to see the intricate artistic, linguistic, and iconographic details you must lean in as close as possible to view the coins on display. But not too close where you set off the alarms (I did this at the Museum of Byzantine Culture in Thessaloniki). Because of the way coins are presented, inevitably, we do not see many of the finer details altogether. Is it any wonder that the monotonous, chronologically ordered, sensorily-abstract methods used to exhibit many Byzantine coins has created an aura of disenchantment. 

To address the above problems, we need to understand how Byzantine history developed as a discipline and how coins, within this disciplinary framework, are excavated, analyzed, curated, represented and presented for public consumption in museums. After which, we will explore different digital methodologies to (re)approach Byzantine coins in, I hope, a more enchanting manner. The objective of the course is to expose students, in a pedagogical environment that does not frown upon failure but openly embraces its inevitability for its learning potential, to a variety of skills and tools to critically assess the intersection of Byzantine history, archaeology, digital humanities and numismatics within public history. The goal is to provide students with the necessary skills that will allow them to critically (re)think how we engage the public with Byzantine coins in public institutions and digital spaces. Furthermore, we address these questions through collaborative digital means, but before we get into the meat of the course, you may be saying: Back that train up. What is enchantment? 

### Enchantment: Not just a Disney fairy tale.

Enchantment is a 'state of wonder,'' an emotive experience that is generated deliberately or by surprise through the affective nature of the sensorial experience (Bennett 2001; Perry 2006; Graham 2020). During our exploration of Byzantine history, archaeology, numismatics and public history we will note that discussion surrounding *enchantment* in Byzantine studies is...lacking. Why? One answer may be how archaeologists and numismatists present and discuss our respective fields. Shawn Graham writes, ‘The serious face of archaeology we present to the public is so lifeless: how can we expect government and the public to be excited about our work if we ourselves give every indication of not being excited either?’” (Graham 2020: 4). In other words, unless scholars get more excited, evocative, animated, provide alternative mediums for narrative creation, create opportunities for public engagement, collaboration, and interaction, and a little less disparaging about how we represent our work to the public, we may indeed be able to create enchantment for and with the public at-large. Graham's observation is pointedly true for Byzantine coins but I am not saying (and I am sure Graham is not) that we go all *Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade* on the archaeology of Byzantine coins. That would require time travel. The question, rather, is what processes and mediums should be explored to facilitate enchantment around Byzantine coins and what could enchantment do for the study of Byzantine history? Enchantment, I argue, can present new, innovative and evocative affective methodologies to critically (re)engage with archaeological legacy data and contemporary materials for creating enchanting narratives that will stimulate wonder and aura around the public facing presentation of Byzantine history.

### Course Structure: 

First, the course is designed as an intensive seminar course in order to promote intimate debate and dialogues between individuals and small working groups. Registration has been limited to nine students to facilitate three groups of three students in order to promote collaboration for the entirety of the course. The course was developed to simulate how archaeological and curatorial practices are accomplished in a variety of collaborate environments. Each week, students are expected to come prepared to class and participate in discussions about the assigned readings and podcasts. These class discussions are meant to support and stimulate students in their weekly discussion post contributions.  Week one provides a general introduction to the course, with an overview of course's overarching themes, objectives, goals and assessments. We will discuss and begin to apply *Obsidian.md*, a note taking manager (details provided in week one's overview), to our course objectives.

Phase one (weeks 2 - 4) will expose students to the concepts and themes in academic history, public history, and digital humanities. Through these frameworks we will discuss the creation of Byzantine studies in the nineteenth century and the effect this had on the development of national and historical narratives for Roman and Byzantine history and identity in public spaces such as museums. We end each phase with an experiential learning tutorial where we apply what we have learned from the previous weeks into a tangible project. By the end of phase one, students should come away with a general knowledge for the development of Byzantine studies, problems associated with the terms Byzantine and Byzantine Empire, as well as how they affect identity representation. 

Phase two (weeks 5-8) begins our journey into Byzantine numismatics and the archaeology of coins. We will address the many contexts of a coin's existence and how they are excavated, documented, curated and finally placed into exhibition. Themes in cultural heritage and cultural property will be addressed along with how the label Byzantine continues to be incorporated into national historical narratives. Specifically, we explore the creation of 'medieval hellenism' in the Greek Nation-State's early development and the affects this had on narrative creation for Byzantine history. By the end of phase two, students will debate whether museums should continue to use the label Byzantine to represent the medieval Eastern Roman Empire and hypothesize alternative labels to be used in student's final projects. The experiential learning tutorial will have students explore online numismatic databases where students will consider the processes for what data to record from a coin and its archaeological context, and document their selected data into their group databases for future processing.

The last phase (weeks 9-13) centres around digital methods and theory to (re)address how Byzantine (or what label we agree upon) coins and identity can be reinterpreted, re-imagined, and presented to the public in a more informative, inclusive and enchanting format. Phase three is where we dive into the meat and potatoes for creating digital enchantment around Byzantine coins. We explore concepts of "agile" objects and how the sensorial creates affective public engagement with emotive intersections to help facilitate the creation of enchantment. We discuss interpretation processes in post-data collection and narrative visualization. Furthermore, we engage with Roman and Byzantine coins in their physical state and with 3D models in order to experience the emotive differences when engaging with coins in these mediums. This leads us into the final project of the course (described in the assessments section) which will be digitally based and collaboratively produced. Week 13 will be a review and final project support week. Projects are due at the end of the week (Friday at 11:59 pm). See Assessments section for due dates and grading breakdown.

### Course Expectations:

1) Complete assigned weekly readings.
2) Come prepared to discuss readings for each class.
3) Participate in discussion posts.
4) Participate and collaborate in class tutorials.
5) Submit a final digital project.

### Learning Outcomes:

1) Discuss and contextualize the development of Byzantine Studies as a discipline. 
2) Conduct independent research on Byzantine history and identity.
3) Analyze, evaluate and identify Byzantine coins.
4) Identify cultural heritage and ethical issues concerning material culture.
5) Prepare and create a public-facing project utilizing the digital methods and tools discussed throughout the course. 

### Your Success:

Your success in this class is dependent on three principles:
1) **Come Prepared**. Do the readings, be prepared to discuss and collaborate with me and your peers. Each class is designed to explore and discuss the assigned readings and podcasts, and how they can inform our research objectives and goals. I will not be lecturing for an hour and a half each class. But I might nerd out and gab your ear off. 
2) **Be Fearless**. Despite what Yoda might think: "Do, or do not. There is no try." (Starwars, Episode V), I want you to **try** new tools and venture into the swampy unknown. 
3) **Fail Gloriously**. Words I live by now. Do not be afraid to fail. When we **try** new methods, theories and digital tools, we are bound to mess up, break things, and fail. If "we" fail, then "we" have learned something.  

---
### Web Links, Digital Tools and Resources:

Click the link below to take you to the Resource page. On this page you will find links to museums, databases, podcasts, tutorial videos, digital tools we will be using and Obsidian.md resources. 
[[Additional Resources]]

---
### Epilogue:

You will notice that I often use common vernacular and "WE" a lot. Why? First, [H]istory is narrative construction and storytelling that must be engaging and relatable. However, public engagement doesn't mean dumbing down scholarly research (Holtorf 2007). Therefore, I don't want to inundate you with technical jargon and scare you away (that would be counter-productive). Rather, I want to challenge you to think about how *we*, as historians, archaeologists, public historians, and numismatists, can reframe, narrate and make Byzantine history enchanting to the public. We will discuss complex topics without the expectation that you will know all the technical jargon. Secondly, the "We" is exactly what it means. We (you and I) will explore, discuss, and collaborate throughout the course. Western academia/universities are embedded with colonialist structures that have created hierarchal systems that produce power structures. The professor-student relationship is one of those structures which, in some cases, can oppress or discourage the student's ability to be creative and produce new and insightful historical narratives. I want to promote and enable a constructive learning environment that focuses on rigorous creative historical narrative construction. ([My Gothic Dissertation](https://www.mygothicdissertation.com/), by Dr. Anna Williams, provides excellent examples of exploited power imbalances in academia between professor and student over and above the thesis' exploration of the Gothic literary genre.) Moreover, in this class, **I am learning from you just as much as you are learning from me.** 

I'm not going to lecture you for an hour and a half every class of every week, then tell you to write a paper. Rather, inspired by the book *Failing Gloriously* (Graham 2019), my goal is to create an environment that promotes open dialogue and allows failure to produce constructive outputs and be informative to your success as a student. Things break, and subsequently, things fail because of these breaks. Failing, or as Graham states, _Fail Gloriously_, is not a bad thing. Indeed, it is positive and necessary (Graham 2020: 3). I have failed - **a lot** - and continue to do so, but each failure is a teachable moment for success. I want you to be inquisitive, curious, and daring to try new things and methods without fear of penalty. The opportunity to fail gloriously in a constructive environment produces a learning experience for you and me. Consequently, it provides you with new methodological tools for creating historical narratives while being as academically rigorous as possible. Attempting to create digital enchantment of Byzantine coins is a collaborative effort which we all learn from. Remember, we are not trying to recreate the Big Bang theory or black holes; we are studying Byzantine coins in the public and academic sphere. Equally as dramatic but without the planet Vulcan destroying properties. We will collaborate, create, fail, and succeed together. Each week we will work and support each other as a team to achieve our objectives. Archaeological sites, museums and exhibitions are not one-person shows. They are collaboratively discussed, planned, surveyed, excavated, created and curated in order to reach an end product. Shouldn't we learn in the same manner? 