### Tutorial Assessments:

There are three tutorial weeks for the course. Each tutorial draws from the previous week's themes and gives students the opportunity for experiential and collaborative learning objectives. For each tutorial, students will work with their assigned groups and discuss, collaborate and accomplish the week's assigned deliverable tasks. Tutorial one (Week 4) gets students to focus on problematizing the term "Byzantine" and "Byzantium" to identify the Eastern Roman Empire on the public-facing side of museum websites. The goal is for students to understand the complexities of accurately representing ancient identities in a consumable manner for the public while avoiding the colonial ghosts which linger in Byzantine studies. 

Tutorial number two (Week 8) focuses on data collection, specifically how we source, interpret and record data into large databases for current and future use. The objective is for students to excavate data from web-based coin databases, think through which coins they will document in their group databases and why they chose the "identifiers" in their databases. The tutorial's goal is to provide students with the necessary skills to navigate large databases, interpret legacy data and provide data for their group's final project. 

The final tutorial's objective (Week 12) is to support students and their data analysis. In other words, how to synthesize the data collected in week eight into a readable and useable narrative for museum curators to draw from when creating museum coin exhibits. Students play both roles, as the tutorial's goal is to simulate the dialogues between scholars when creating historical narratives for public consumption. Students will draw from their group's Obsidian notes to support their analysis and the final project. 